#summary List of contributed reCAPTCHA plugins.

This is a page to share user-contributed plugins. You can find a number of official plugins, as well as a listing of some of our most popular contributed plugins in the [http://code.google.com/apis/recaptcha/intro.html Developer's Guide].

===Elgg===
A replacement plugin for the default captcha plugin for Elgg, the open source social networking engine, using reCAPTCHA instead. 

Download and Instructions can be found here:

 http://community.elgg.org/pg/plugins/quiklink/read/529826/recaptcha

----

===MODx===
Recaptcha can be incorporated into the eForm and SPForm components of MODx by following these tutorials :

For eForm : http://modxcms.com/forums/index.php/topic,41869.msg252530.html#msg252530

For SPForm : http://modxcms.com/forums/index.php/topic,42131.0.html

An example of using Mailhide can be found here : http://modxcms.com/forums/index.php/topic,42270.0.html

In all cases, the recaptchalib.php file was located in assets/snippets/recaptcha, though this can be changed.
Private/public keys were also stored there for convenience.  Should any issues be found with this implementation over time, notice will most likely be found in those forum threads.

----

===Erlang===
This driver is quick and easy for any erlang application. Just get the .erl file, compile to a .beam, and use away. It implements the basic challenge/response server side transaction.

Download here:

 http://code.google.com/p/recaptcha-erlang/

----

===Magento===

We have created a free reCaptcha extension for Magento, the Open Source ecommerce web application. The extension adds reCaptcha capabilities to all pages requiring user input. 
The extension can be found here:

 http://www.fontis.com.au/magento/extension/recaptcha

Credit for the extension goes to Fontis.
----

===Plone===

There is now a reCaptcha (collective.recaptcha) add-on product for Plone, the popular open-source content management system, written by David Glick.  It is available for download at:

 http://plone.org/products/collective.recaptcha

It is based on the recaptcha-client Python library.

We've tagged the current release as beta, but we do have it in production use, believe it to be bug-free, and will likely tag a final release very soon.
----

===bbPress===

reCAPTCHA bbPress is a plugin that utilises recaptcha to prevent spam registrations in bbPress - Wordpress' forum derivative.

Download & installation instructions are listed here:

 http://www.gospelrhys.co.uk/plugins/bbpress-plugins/recaptcha-bbpress-plugin

I have tested it on a number of systems & production websites, and it's stable. If you do decide to list it elsewhere in the site, please credit Rhys Wynne as the author.
----

===TracCaptcha===

[http://www.schwarz.eu/opensource/projects/trac_captcha/ TracCaptcha] is pluggable captcha infrastructure for trac with reCAPTCHA included to protect tickets and comments.
----

===Trac SpamFilter===

[http://trac.edgewall.org/wiki/SpamFilter Trac SpamFilter] is a Trac plugin to filter spam submissions supporting reCaptcha as one mechanism to increase score for submissions.
----

===ZenMagick===
The [http://www.zenmagick.org/ ZenMagick] zm_recaptcha plugin allows to protect public forms like ''Contact Us'', ''Write Review'' and others using the reCAPTCHA library. ZenMagick is an alternative storefront and object oriented API for [http://www.zencart.com/ Zen Cart].

This plugin works only with ZenMagick themes, not using native [http://www.zencart.com/ Zen Cart] templates.

Details are available at:

 http://wiki.zenmagick.org/index.php/Plugins::zm_recaptcha
----

===DokuWiki===
The [http://www.dokuwiki.org DokuWIki] reCAPTCHA plugin allows you to protect the registration form and the edit forms. It uses the reCAPTCHA library, DokuWiki is a standards compliant, simple to use Wiki. 
For download and installation instructions see:

 https://fosswiki.liip.ch/display/DOKU/reCAPTCHA+Dokuwiki+Plugin

and 

 http://www.dokuwiki.org/plugin:recaptcha
----

===reCAPTCHA as a Web Service===
I have implemented [http://looseassociations.com/ReCAPTCHAasAService reCAPTCHA as a web service], providing a simple way to add reCAPTCHA to sites/platforms without modifying CGI code. It isn't ideal -- plugins would be preferred whenever available -- but it brings reCAPTCHA to sites where no plugin is available (TWiki in my case) and site operators are unable or unwilling to modify code.

 http://looseassociations.com/ReCAPTCHAasAService
----

===OutSystems Component===
I have implemented a [http://www.outsystems.com/NetworkSolutions/ProjectDetail.aspx?ProjectId=134 reCAPTCHA component] for the [http://www.outsystems.com/download OutSystems Agile Platform], providing a simple way to add a reCAPTCHA validation to an edit page. You can download the component together with a very simple test application here:

 http://www.outsystems.com/NetworkSolutions/ProjectDetail.aspx?ProjectId=134
----

===FlatPress===
A [http://www.ramblingross.co.uk/2010/08/11/recaptcha-for-flatpress/ reCAPTCHA plugin] for the [http://flatpress.org/home/ FlatPress blogging engine] is now available.
----