#summary Todo list for the WordPress reCAPTCHA plugin version 2.8.
#labels Phase-Requirements

=2.8=
===No Brainers===
  * Use WordPress Plugins database to make use of WordPress plugin update notifications
===Short Term===
  * Integrate Mailhide
    ** Remove unnecessary options. *Done*
    ** Don't describe MailHide; give an example. Link to the [http://mailhide.recaptcha.net/ user] page instead. *Done*
    ** Don't show CSS or Regex as options in the admin panel. Show the CSS class for hidden emails on the admin page. *Done*
    ** Check for mcrypt PHP module: We can use *extension_loaded*. Show an alert of this on the admin page. *Done*
    {{{
    if (extension_loaded('mcrypt'))
    }}}
  * Option to turn off reCAPTCHA for admins. *Done*
  * Option to turn off MailHide for admins. *Done*
  * Use a recaptcha.css stylesheet for all recaptcha styling inside and outside of the admin interface. *Done*
  * Drop down list for preset themes. [http://recaptcha.net/apidocs/captcha/client.html More Info]. *Done*
  * Drop down list for languages. *Done*
  * What of <a href="me@haha.com">Email Me</a>. Will need new regex for searching for links with emails in them or something similar, then make a function similar to recaptcha_mailhide_html without the emailparts padded on both sides. This will replace the href part of the link but not touch the link text, therefore preserving the desired and expected effect. *Done*
  * A way to bypass the MailHide filter. Something like {{{[nohide][/nohide]}}}. Should be possible with another regular expression. *Done*
    ** Took forever but now working. Should we allow users to set the name of the tag themselves? Default nohide though? Probably would just confuse users.
  * XHTML 1.0 Strict compliant [http://validator.w3.org/ W3 Validator]. *Done*
    ** (_First make sure this is fine, had to edit the actual recaptchalib.php file and remove line 125 the iframe line and then encapsulate the contents of the noscript tags with a div tag. Not sure what the effects of removing the iframe line are but everything seems to be working fine_)
  * Add option to add reCAPTCHA to the registration form. *Done*
  * Fix the Akismet conflicts: WordPress Hook priority level problems?
  * Show disclaimer at the top of post box saying that users should feel safe posting their email addresses.
  * Make XSS-proof. Apostrophes are allowed in email matching regex for MailHide, can it be used to escape out of Javascript.
===Long Term===
  * Integrate with Akismet. If Akismet says comment is okay, then bypass reCAPTCHA, else, give another chance with reCAPTCHA: Might be possible with Akismet API given Akismet conflicts are fixed
  * Karma model. If, based on karma model, user can be trusted, don't show reCAPTCHA to them.